[RFC] Implement caching for ActionSelector, LPM and ternary tables (#25)
tatry/p4c: backends/ebpf/psa/README.md

By default, lookup into map is done in the following way:
```c
struct table_key_type key = {};
/* here fill key's fields */
struct table_value_type *value = NULL;
value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(table_map, &key);
if (value == NULL) {
    /* miss; find default action */
    hit = 0;
    value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(table_map_defaultAction, &ebpf_zero);
} else {
    hit = 1;
}
```
With caching enabled, lookup into map will be done in little modified way:
```c
struct table_key_type key = {};
/* here fill key's fields */
struct table_value_type *value = NULL;
struct table_value_type_cache *cached_value = NULL;
cached_value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(table_map_cache, &key);
if (cached_value != NULL) {
    /* cache hit */
    value = &(cached_value->value);
    hit = cached_value->hit;
} else {
    /* cache miss, normal lookup into map */
    value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(table_map, &key);
    if (value == NULL) {
        /* miss; find default action */
        hit = 0;
        value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(table_map_defaultAction, &ebpf_zero);
    } else {
        hit = 1;
    }
    if (value != NULL) {
        /* update cache if value has been found */

>         struct table_value_type_cache cache_update = { 0 };
>         cache_update.hit = hit;
>         __builtin_memcpy((void *) &(cache_update->value), (void *) value, sizeof(struct table_value_type));
>         BPF_MAP_UPDATE_ELEM(table_map_cache, &key, &cache_update, BPF_ANY);
>     }
> }
> ```
> 
> Note that cached table entries are a copy of an original entry. This causes that extern which preserve internal state inside
> table entry (like `DirectMeter` or `DirectCounter`) can't be used with cache due to two existing different states. Compiler
> will not enable table caching for tables containing such direct extern.
> 
> When updating table with enabled cache, the cache must be invalidated in order to update to be effective. The simplest way
> to do this is to remove all entries from LRU map, which is done automatically by the NIKSS library.
> 
> Similar approach to this is done in `Action Selector` extern when group reference is present. Lookup with cache into
> `Action Selctor` looks like below where cache is used to skip checksum calculation and member selection if possible:
> ```c
> struct ingress_as_value * as_value = NULL;  // pointer to an action data
> u32 as_action_ref = value->ingress_as_ref;  // value->ingress_as_ref is entry from table (reference)
> u8 as_group_state = 0;                      // from which map read action data
> struct ingress_as_key_cache key_cache = {0};
> u8 do_update_cache = 0;
> if (value->ingress_as_is_group_ref != 0) {
>     key_cache.group_ref = value->ingress_as_ref; // group reference
>     key_cache.field0 = /* fill selectors value */;
>     as_value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(ingress_as_cache, &key_cache);
>     if (as_value != NULL) {
>         as_group_state = 2; // cache hit, forbid later lookups into maps
>     } else {
>         do_update_cache = 1; // cache miss, update cache later, below normal lookup
>         void * as_group_map = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(ingress_as_groups, &as_action_ref);  // get group map
>         if (as_group_map != NULL) {
>             u32 * num_of_members = bpf_map_lookup_elem(as_group_map, &ebpf_zero);
>             if (num_of_members != NULL) {
>                 if (*num_of_members != 0) {
>                     /* calculate checksum here */
>                     u64 as_checksum_val = /* calculated checksum */;
>                     as_action_ref = /* determine member reference based on checksum */;
>                 } else {
>                     as_group_state = 1; // execute default action when group is empty
>                 }
>             } else {
>                 return TC_ACT_SHOT; // number of members not found
>             }
>         } else {
>             return TC_ACT_SHOT; // group not found
>         }
>     }
> }
> if (as_group_state == 0) {
>     as_value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(ingress_as_actions, &as_action_ref); // member action data (valid member reference)
> } else if (as_group_state == 1) {
>     as_value = BPF_MAP_LOOKUP_ELEM(ingress_as_defaultActionGroup, &ebpf_zero);  // default group action data
> }
> if (as_value != NULL && do_update_cache != 0) {
>     BPF_MAP_UPDATE_ELEM(ingress_as_cache, &key_cache, as_value, BPF_ANY); // update cache
> }
> ```
> 

Reviewer: I don't think we need to paste the entire C code. Just a short explanation is enough. 

```suggestion
# Performance optimizations

## Table caching

Table caching optimizes P4 table lookups by implementing a cache with all `exact` matches for time-consuming lookups including:
- table with `ternary` (and/or lpm, exact) key - skip slow TSS algorithm if the key was matched earlier.
- table with `lpm` (and/or exact) key - skip slow `LPM_TRIE` map (especially when there is many entries) if the key was matched earlier.
- `ActionSelector` member selection from group - skip slow checksum calculation for `selector` key if it was calculated earlier.

The fast exact-match map is added in front of each instance of a table that contains a `lpm`, `ternary` or `selector` match key. The table cache is implemented with `BPF_MAP_TYPE_LRU_HASH`, which shares its implementation with the BPF hash map. The LRU map provides a good lookup performance, but lower performance on map updates due to a maintenance process. Thus, this optimization fits into use cases, where a value of table key changes infrequently between packets. The LRU map will automatically evict the least recently used entries when the hash table reaches capacity. 

This optimization may not improve performance in every case, so it must be explicitly enabled by compiler option. To enable table caching pass `--table-caching` to the compiler. 
```

Author: Good idea. I pasted the documentation from https://github.com/P4-Research/nikss-p4c/blob/psa-ebpf/backends/ebpf/docs/perf-optimization.md so that why this code is present here.

# TODO / Limitations

> We list the known bugs/limitations below. Refer to the Roadmap section for features planned in the near future.

Reviewer: Can we add limitations of table caching to the list?

Author: I will add the limitations

Author: Done
